# Reputation Management on Blockchain

About 2 billion people are unbanked throughout the world and India is one of the major countries with a large unbanked population of around 19%. There are a lot of reasons for the population being unbanked, among which the major reasons being that either they do not have enough money at a given time (i.e.) a cash flow problem or they do not see any use of having a bank account. The general benefit of having creditworthiness due to a bank account does not apply in these cases because the credit that these people want is generally low and banks do not find it viable to give loan of lesser amounts due to the high costs involved. A typical customer profile that we are choosing is “Imagine Rajni to be a street vendor. Every day she borrows Rs.90 from a money lender, buys vegetables and sells them at a mark-up. She makes about Rs.130-140, and pays back Rs.100 to the lender. She pays a usurious interest rate because the cost of servicing small loans is high—more importantly, because she has no other option. A new moneylender is likely to trust her even less and the rates would be just as high “. Because of this a large informal market of small loans of typically less than 1000 for small periods of less than a week is prevalent, but the interest rates for these informal loans are exorbitant. The scenarios might vary locally (e.g.) weavers might borrow 3,000 Rs a week to complete a saree and then get paid by the master weaver etc. According to World Bank, financial services are not yet affordable or designed to fit low income users. So, we propose a system which is designed to make providing loan affordable for banks and attract low income users who take small loans from local money lenders into the banking system and thus create a digital footprint with which they can get higher loans based on the repayment history. The reputation system and microloans in this model helps in bringing customers into the banking system and provides a reason for further using the banking services thus benefitting banks as well as
customers.